.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH RTEVAL 8 "august  27, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
rteval \- evaluate latency performance of a realtime Linux system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rteval
.RI "[ \-hvsLSDOZ ] [\-d " duration " ] [\-w " workdir " ] [\-l " loaddir " ] \
[\-X " host " ]"

.\" .SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This manual page documents briefly the
.\" .B rteval command.
.\" .PP
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, respectively.
.\" \fBcyclictest\fP is a program that...

The rteval program is used to evaluate the realtime performance of a
realtime Linux kernel on a particular hardware system. There is
nothing that actually requires a realtime Linux kernel, but the
latency measurements will usually be pretty bad on a stock Linux
kernel. 


.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes ('\-\-').
.br
A summary of options is included below.
.\" For a complete description, see the Info files.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
print a help message
.TP
.B -d, \-\-duration=DURATION
Specify the length of the measurement run. DURATION is an integer with
an optional suffix indicating the units:

.br
   s - seconds
.br
   m - minutes
.br
   h - hours
.br
   d - days
.br
for example to execute a ten minute run of rteval:
.br
     $ rteval \-\-duration=10m
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Increase the verbosity of output during the test run
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-workdir=WORKDIR
Tell rteval to change directory to WORKDIR before creating any
subdirectories for report files. The default WORKDIR is the directory
in which rteval was started. 
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-loaddir=LOADDIR
Tell rteval where to find the source for the loads
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sysreport
Have rteval run the sysreport utility after a run to gather
information on the running system.
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-debug
Turn on debugging prints during run
.TP
.B \-X, \-\-xmprpc-submit=HOST
Have rteval send report data to HOST following the run, using XML-RPC
.TP
.B \-Z, \-\-summarize
Have rteval summarize an existing report. This will not cause loads or
meausurement utilities to be run. 
.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR bar (1),
.\" .BR baz (1).
.\" .br

.SH FILES
.BR rteval-YYYYMMDD-S
This is a directory created by rteval to hold the summary.xml file as
well as other files collected on the system. It is the current Year,
Month, and Day, followed by a sequence number for multiple runs on the
same day. 

.BR summary.xml
This is an XML file that contains information about a test run and the
host system upon which rteval was run.
.BR dmesg
This is the output of the dmesg(1) program immediately following
system boot. It is copied from /var/log/dmesg. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cyclictest(8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
rteval was written by Clark Williams <williams@redhat.com>
.PP
XML-RPC and database code by David Sommerseth <davids@redhat.com>
